README.md, before:

﻿whoosh Oktopus 🐙
===
Contains documentation and setup scripts for the **whoosh Oktopus**.

Der Schnittstellen-Dealer\
https://freedom-manufaktur.com/whoosh-oktopus

# Documentation
- [Oktopus Installation](<Documentation/Oktopus Installation Manual.md>) 🚀 - Install Oktopus on your server or in your Docker environment.
- [Oktopus Triggers](<Documentation/Oktopus Triggers.md>) ⚡ - When to start a workflow?
- [Oktopus Actions](<Documentation/Oktopus Actions.md>) ⚙️ - What to do within a workflow.
- [Oktopus Functions](<Documentation/Oktopus Functions.md>) 📜 - Available scripting functions to manipulate data (in addition to [Scriban functions](https://github.com/scriban/scriban/blob/master/doc/builtins.md)).

## Additional documentation
- [How to register an App within Microsoft Entra ID](<Documentation/Register an App within Entra ID.md>) - For use when necessary.
- [How to register an Exchange Online App within Microsoft Entra ID](<Documentation/Register an Exchange Online App within Entra ID.md>) - For use when necessary.
- [How to register a Google Workspace Service Account](<Documentation/Register a Google Workspace Service Account.md>) - For use when necessary.
- [How to register a ServiceNow API Key](<Documentation/Register a ServiceNow API Key.md>) - For use when necessary.

# Downloads
- [Docker Compose](<Docker Compose>) 🐋 - Scripts to run on [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) via [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

---

Powered by [freedom manufaktur](https://freedom-manufaktur.com/) 🕊

Commit message:

Document missing steps increase version Add basic manual

README.md, after:

﻿whoosh Oktopus 🐙
===
Contains documentation and setup scripts for the **whoosh Oktopus**.

Der Schnittstellen-Dealer\
https://freedom-manufaktur.com/whoosh-oktopus

# Documentation
- [Oktopus Installation](<Documentation/Oktopus Installation Manual.md>) 🚀 - Install Oktopus on your server or in your Docker environment.
- [Oktopus Manual](<Documentation/Oktopus Manual.md>) 🧭 - How to use Oktopus in various aspects.
- [Oktopus Triggers](<Documentation/Oktopus Triggers.md>) ⚡ - When to start a workflow?
- [Oktopus Actions](<Documentation/Oktopus Actions.md>) ⚙️ - What to do within a workflow.
- [Oktopus Functions](<Documentation/Oktopus Functions.md>) 📜 - Available scripting functions to manipulate data (in addition to [Scriban functions](https://github.com/scriban/scriban/blob/master/doc/builtins.md)).

## Additional documentation
- [How to register an App within Microsoft Entra ID](<Documentation/Register an App within Entra ID.md>) - For use when necessary.
- [How to register an Exchange Online App within Microsoft Entra ID](<Documentation/Register an Exchange Online App within Entra ID.md>) - For use when necessary.
- [How to register a Google Workspace Service Account](<Documentation/Register a Google Workspace Service Account.md>) - For use when necessary.
- [How to register a ServiceNow API Key](<Documentation/Register a ServiceNow API Key.md>) - For use when necessary.

# Downloads
- [Docker Compose](<Docker Compose>) 🐋 - Scripts to run on [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) via [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

---

Powered by [freedom manufaktur](https://freedom-manufaktur.com/) 🕊
